works/index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Juri Strumpflohner
current: projects
---
# My Works

## Coding

Please head over to [GitHub](http://github.com/juristr) for my public coding activities.

## Books

### [JavaScriptMVC](/blog/2013/06/learning-javascriptmvc/)

**Technical Reviewer**

Introductory book about creating JavaScript SPAs with [JavaScriptMVC](http://javascript.com).

### [Windows 8 Metro applications with HTML5 and JavaScript](/blog/2013/09/developing-win-store-apps-with-html5-and-javascript/)

**Technical Reviewer**

A book about creating Windows 8 applications with JavaScript and HTML5.

## Talks

Some of the (so far mostly company internal) talks I gave and which I'd like to share here.

### JavaScript - The Language
A introduction to JavaScript from the language point of view. Nothing about frameworks, but a presentation about the most common language features with the purpose to point out the possibilities and peculiarities the language brings with it.

Btw, I created the presentation with [impress.js](https://github.com/bartaz/impress.js/), a library for creating HTML based [Prezi](http://prezi.com/) style presentations.

#### Slides
[![](/talks/resources/imgs/javascript_thelanguage.png)](/talks/resources/js_lang/index.html)

Commit message:

update works with recent books

works/index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Juri Strumpflohner
current: projects
---
# My Works

## Coding

Please head over to [GitHub](http://github.com/juristr) for my public coding activities.

## Books

### [Learning JavaScriptMVC](/blog/2013/06/learning-javascriptmvc/)

**Technical Reviewer**

Introductory book about creating JavaScript SPAs with [JavaScriptMVC](http://javascript.com).

### [Windows 8 Metro applications with HTML5 and JavaScript](/blog/2013/09/developing-win-store-apps-with-html5-and-javascript/)

**Technical Reviewer**

A book about creating Windows 8 applications with JavaScript and HTML5.

### [JavaScript Regular Expressions](https://www.packtpub.com/web-development/javascript-regular-expressions)

Leverage the power of regular expressions to create an engaging user experience

**Technical Reviewer**

### [Learning Behavior Driven Development with JavaScript](https://www.packtpub.com/application-development/learning-behavior-driven-development-javascript)

**Technical Reviewer**

Learn a more agile and efficient approach to JavaScript web development, and let behaviour-driven development redefine the way you test your projects

## Talks

Some of the (so far mostly company internal) talks I gave and which I'd like to share here.

### JavaScript - The Language
A introduction to JavaScript from the language point of view. Nothing about frameworks, but a presentation about the most common language features with the purpose to point out the possibilities and peculiarities the language brings with it.

Btw, I created the presentation with [impress.js](https://github.com/bartaz/impress.js/), a library for creating HTML based [Prezi](http://prezi.com/) style presentations.

#### Slides
[![](/talks/resources/imgs/javascript_thelanguage.png)](/talks/resources/js_lang/index.html)
