_drafts/git-flow-manually.md, before:

---
layout: articles-post
title: "Getting started with the 'Git flow'"
lead: ""
show_img_in_detail: false
coverimage: false
tags: ["Git"]
---

## Git-flow... 

...is another popular strategy which works around the master branch as well, but in a less "aggressive" way. You have two main branches

**master branch** contains the latest production code that has been deployed, and versioned with appropriate tags for each release.

**develop branch** that gets branched off master and contains the latest code for the next feature that is being developed. For each new feature there might be lots of feature branches (always branched off the "develop" branch).  
Beside the main branches, there are so-called supporting branches:

**feature branches** are simple feature oriented branches

**hotfix branches** are branches for quick and severe bugfixes. they are usually branched off the master branch, fixed in the hotfix branch and then merged  back in master and develop as well.

**release branch** is a branch for preparing the next release. No new features will be developed on this branch but rather it contains some last fixes (also bugfixes) and adjustments for going into production. 
 
![](http://nvie.com/img/2009/12/Screen-shot-2009-12-24-at-11.32.03.png)

- [http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/](http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/)

### Production branch oriented

The production oriented branch strategy has

- **master branch** which contains the actual development code (corresponds to the "develop" branch in the git-flow model)
- **production branch** contains the deployed code.

Supporting branches are the following:

- **feature branches** which contain the development of specific features and are branched off master and merged back into master
- **hotfix branches** (works like in the git-flow model)
- **release branch** (works like in the git-flow model)

<figure>
  <img src="/blog/assets/imgs/git-flow/git_prodoriented_flow.png"/>
  <figcaption>Production branch oriented flow variation</figcaption>
</figure>

Source: [http://www.slideshare.net/lemiorhan/git-branching-model](http://www.slideshare.net/lemiorhan/git-branching-model)


## Usage

First of all you have to initialize an empty repository and eventually connect it immediately to your remote one.

```
$ git init
$ git remote add origin git@.....
```

Furthermore I'd suggest to also add a `.gitignore` file. You may start from an existing one based on your project type: [Github .gitignore repository](https://github.com/github/gitignore/).

"push" everything up to your remote repo.

```
$ git push --set-upstream origin master
```

### Create a new Feature

From `master`

```
$ git pull
$ git checkout -b userstory/login
```

Do some commits and then publish the feature on the remote repo (if not a tiny one of a couple of hours)

```
$ git push origin userstory/login
```

### Update feature from master

Frequently update from origin/master to get the latest changes that have been pushed to the repo by your peers.

```
$ git fetch origin master
$ git rebase origin/master
```

Alternatively checkout your master branch and execute

```
$ git pull master
$ git checkout <yourfeaturebranche>
$ git rebase master
```

### Finish a feature

Merge it back into master

```
$ git checkout master
$ git pull
$ git merge --no-ff userstory/login
```

`--no-ff` means no fast-forward to keep track from where certain changes have originated.

<p class="notice tip">
In order to not forget the <code>--no-ff</code> flag you might want to configure it as the default behavior when merging into master by executing the following command: <code>git config branch.master.mergeoptions "--no-ff"</code>
</p>

In case of conflicts, resolve them and then push the master

```
$ git push
```
and remove the userstory (locally and remote)

```
$ git branch -d userstory/login
$ git push origin :userstory/login
```

### Prepare release

```
$ git checkout -b release/0.1.0
```

### Publish production

```
$ git checkout production
$ git pull
$ git merge --no-ff release/0.1.0
$ git tag v0.1.0
$ git push --tags origin production
```
Delete the `release/x.x.x` branch.

### Create a hotfix

```
$ git checkout production
$ git checkout -b hotfix/login-does-not-work
```

After testing it, merge back into production

```
$ git checkout production
$ git merge --no-ff hotfix/login-does-not-work
$ git tag v0.1.1
$ git push --tags
```

Obviously also merge those changes back to master as well

```
$ git checkout master
$ git merge --no-ff hotfix/login-does-not-work
```

And then delete the hotfix branch

```
$ git branch -d hotfix/login-does-not-work
```

## Ok..I'm a Jedi..give me some tools

### Git flow CLI tool

Git Flow ist eine "Git command line extension" welche die Implementierung des "git flow" erleichtern soll.

- https://github.com/nvie/gitflow
- http://danielkummer.github.io/git-flow-cheatsheet/

> Es ist ratsam zuerst den Workflow manuell zu implementieren um ihn besser zu verstehen und erst dann evtl. ein Tool verwenden.

### Haacked's Git Aliases



### Configuring Jenkins

Um Jenkins nach dem "git flow" Modell zu konfigurieren müssen entsprechende Builds erstellt werden:

- continuous
  - master (od. develop)
  - production (should also archive successful build)
  - `*/story/*`
- deploy
  - master (od. develop) welches auf dev deployed
  - `*/release/*` welches auf demo/staging deployed?

## Links

- [Offical Git site](http://git-scm.com/)

### Tutorials
- [Interactive Tutorial](http://ndpsoftware.com/git-cheatsheet.html#loc=local_repo;)
- [Learn Git branching](http://pcottle.github.io/learnGitBranching/index.html)
- [My Git cheat sheet](https://gist.github.com/juristr/5280366)
- [Git for Visual Studio](http://juristr.com/blog/2013/06/getting-started-with-git-and-visualstudio/)

### Other useful Tools

- [GitHub Windows Client](http://windows.github.com/)
- [TortoiseGit](https://code.google.com/p/tortoisegit/)

Commit message:

finishes article about how we use git flow

_drafts/git-flow-manually.md, after:

---
layout: articles-post
title: "Getting started with the 'Git flow'"
lead: ""
show_img_in_detail: false
coverimage: false
tags: ["Git"]
---

Git can be used in a variety of ways which is cool. But still, when working within a team, it is good to have a consensus on a common, shared approach in order to avoid conflicts. This article quickly explains how we implemented the "git flow" pattern in on of our projects.

## Git-flow... 

...is a popular strategy which works around the master branch, but in a less "aggressive" way (than the [GitHub flow pattern](https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/index.html) for instance). You have two main branches

**master branch** contains the latest production code that has been deployed, and versioned with appropriate tags for each release.

**develop branch** that gets branched off master and contains the latest code for the next feature that is being developed. For each new feature there might be lots of feature branches (always branched off the "develop" branch).  
Beside the main branches, there are so-called supporting branches:

**feature branches** are simple feature oriented branches

**hotfix branches** are branches for quick and severe bugfixes. they are usually branched off the master branch, fixed in the hotfix branch and then merged  back in master and develop as well.

**release branch** is a branch for preparing the next release. No new features will be developed on this branch but rather it contains some last fixes (also bugfixes) and adjustments for going into production. 
 
![](http://nvie.com/img/2009/12/Screen-shot-2009-12-24-at-11.32.03.png)

- [http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/](http://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/)

### Production branch oriented

The production oriented branch strategy has

- **master branch** which contains the actual development code (corresponds to the "develop" branch in the git-flow model)
- **production branch** contains the deployed code.

Supporting branches are the following:

- **feature branches** which contain the development of specific features and are branched off master and merged back into master
- **hotfix branches** (works like in the git-flow model)
- **release branch** (works like in the git-flow model)

<figure>
  <img src="/blog/assets/imgs/git-flow/git_prodoriented_flow.png"/>
  <figcaption>Production branch oriented flow variation</figcaption>
</figure>

Source: [http://www.slideshare.net/lemiorhan/git-branching-model](http://www.slideshare.net/lemiorhan/git-branching-model)


## Usage

First of all you have to initialize an empty repository and eventually connect it immediately to your remote one.

```
$ git init
$ git remote add origin git@.....
```

Furthermore I'd suggest to also add a `.gitignore` file. You may start from an existing one based on your project type: [Github .gitignore repository](https://github.com/github/gitignore/).

"push" everything up to your remote repo.

```
$ git push --set-upstream origin master
```

### Create a new Feature

From `master`

```
$ git pull
$ git checkout -b userstory/login
```

Do some commits and then publish the feature on the remote repo (if not a tiny one of a couple of hours)

```
$ git push origin userstory/login
```

### Update feature from master

Frequently update from origin/master to get the latest changes that have been pushed to the repo by your peers.

```
$ git fetch origin master
$ git rebase origin/master
```

Alternatively checkout your master branch and execute

```
$ git pull master
$ git checkout <yourfeaturebranche>
$ git rebase master
```

### Finish a feature

Merge it back into master

```
$ git checkout master
$ git pull
$ git merge --no-ff userstory/login
```

`--no-ff` means no fast-forward to keep track from where certain changes have originated.

<p class="notice tip">
In order to not forget the <code>--no-ff</code> flag you might want to configure it as the default behavior when merging into master by executing the following command: <code>git config branch.master.mergeoptions "--no-ff"</code>
</p>

In case of conflicts, resolve them and then push the master

```
$ git push
```
and remove the userstory (locally and remote)

```
$ git branch -d userstory/login
$ git push origin :userstory/login
```

### Prepare release

```
$ git checkout -b release/0.1.0
```

### Publish production

```
$ git checkout production
$ git pull
$ git merge --no-ff release/0.1.0
$ git tag v0.1.0
$ git push --tags origin production
```
Delete the `release/x.x.x` branch.

### Create a hotfix

```
$ git checkout production
$ git checkout -b hotfix/login-does-not-work
```

After testing it, merge back into production

```
$ git checkout production
$ git merge --no-ff hotfix/login-does-not-work
$ git tag v0.1.1
$ git push --tags
```

Obviously also merge those changes back to master as well

```
$ git checkout master
$ git merge --no-ff hotfix/login-does-not-work
```

And then delete the hotfix branch

```
$ git branch -d hotfix/login-does-not-work
```

## Ok..I'm a Jedi..give me some tools

### Git flow CLI tool

**Git Flow** is a git command line extension to facilitate the usage of the "git flow" pattern.

- [Download & install](https://github.com/nvie/gitflow)
- [Git flow cheatsheet](http://danielkummer.github.io/git-flow-cheatsheet/)

The tool is really nice, nevertheless I'd recommend you to first manually try the flow pattern in order to fully understand it. (that holds for most productivity tools, btw).

### Haacked's Git Aliases

[Phil Haack](http://haacked.com/about/) (former Microsoft employee and now working on [GitHub for Windows](windows.github.com) @ GitHub) published an interesting set of **13 git aliases** to boost your productivity. You might want to take a look at them:

[http://haacked.com/archive/2014/07/28/github-flow-aliases/](http://haacked.com/archive/2014/07/28/github-flow-aliases/)

To install them, simply copy&paste the aliases into your `.gitconfig` file.  You should find it in your user profile directory (`~` on unix systems; `C:\users\<yourname>\` on Windows).

### Configuring Jenkins

Please refer to my recent blog post **["Git flow with Jenkins and GitLab"](/blog/2014/01/git-flow-jenkins-gitlab/)** for further details on how to configure your build environment.

## How we use it - our pipeline

We adopted the git flow pattern in one of our projects with a team getting in touch with git for the first time (they used TFS before). I [introduced them to the Git basics](/blog/2013/04/git-explained/) and then they started straight ahead and surprisingly the switch was really easy. By using git flow we minimized the conflicting merges and thus potential problems in the development flow.

**So how did we use it?**. The team applied some kind of Scrum (we're new to it, thus "some kind of" :)). We have two weeks iterations with an initial planning phase (usually on thursday morning) and we have the tester on the team (yay!).

1. At the start of the sprint cycle, our devs take their user stories (on Trello) and create corresponding feature branches having the pattern `userstory/<trello-card-#>-userstory-title` for userstories, `task/<trello-card-#>-title` for tasks and `bug/<trello-card-#>-title` for bugs.
2. The develop on the feature branches and fequently update them with master (see git flow usage above). If the story/task/bug's implementation takes longer than a day or two, the branch gets pushed to the remote GitLab server (for backup reasons). Each of these pushes gets automatically [build and tested by our Jenkins](/blog/2014/01/git-flow-jenkins-gitlab/).
3. Once finished with the implementation, the developer either merges it with `master` or creates a merge request on GitLab assigned to another developer for code reviewing. When `master` gets pushed to GitLab, Jenkins automatically takes it and publishes it to our _dev server instance_.
4. Once every night, the `master` branch gets automatically published to our _test server instance_ s.t. the tester in our team can continue to test the implemented stories and either mark them as done or reject them within our spring cycle. Furthermore a series of automated jMeter tests get executed that verify the correct functioning of our REST api as well as the performance of our endpoints.
5. After the 2-weeks-cycle one of our devs prepares a release (see the kind of commands to execute in the "git flow usage" above) by merging `master` onto `production`. This is automatically detected by Jenkins which - again - publishes to our _preproduction server instance_ which is also accessible by our customer.

---

That's the flow we came up with after a few iterations and dicussions within the team and with our tester. What's your approach?? I'd be interested to hear in the comments.
